<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="generator" content="Docutils 0.19: https://docutils.sourceforge.io/" />

    <title>Channels</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="channels">
<h1>Channels</h1>
<p>Channels are used by tasks to send each other messages. They consist of queues with fixed maximum numbers of elements.</p>
<p>If there are fewer elements than the maximum in a queue and a task attempts to send on a channel, the new element will be enqueued, and if a task is waiting to receive an element it will be woken up and will then receive the element; otherwise the sending task will block until another task receives from the queue to free up space for the new element.</p>
<p>If there are greater than zero elements in a queue and a task attempts to receive from a channel, the next element will be dequeued, and if a task is waiting to send an element it will be woken up and will then send the element; otherwise the receiving task will block until another task sends on the queue.</p>
<section id="zscript-chan-words">
<h2><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">zscript-chan</span></code> words</h2>
<section id="make-chan">
<h3><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">make-chan</span></code></h3>
<p>( size – channel )</p>
<p>Create a channel with a maximum number of elements of <em>size</em>.</p>
</section>
<section id="send">
<h3><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">send</span></code></h3>
<p>( message channel – )</p>
<p>Send a message to a channel. If the channel is full, block until a receiving task frees up space for the message. Also, if there are blocked receiving tasks, wake up one receiving task.</p>
</section>
<section id="send-non-block">
<h3><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">send-non-block</span></code></h3>
<p>( message channel – success? ).</p>
<p>Send a message to a channel in a non-blocking fashion, If the channel has room to enqueue the message, return <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">true</span></code>, else return <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>.</p>
</section>
<section id="recv">
<h3><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">recv</span></code></h3>
<p>( channel – message )</p>
<p>Receive a message from a channel. If the channel is empty, block until a sending task provides a message to receive. Also, if there are blocked sending tasks, wake up one sending task.</p>
</section>
<section id="recv-non-block">
<h3><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">recv-non-block</span></code></h3>
<p>( channel – message success? )</p>
<p>Receive a message from a channel in a non-blocking fashion. If the channel is not empty, return the message and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">true</span></code>, else return <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>.</p>
</section>
<section id="peek">
<h3><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">peek</span></code></h3>
<p>( channel – message )</p>
<p>Peek a message from a channel, i.e. read it without dequeuing it. If the channel is empty, block until a sending task provides a message to peek.</p>
</section>
<section id="peek-non-block">
<h3><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">peek-non-block</span></code></h3>
<p>( channel – message success? )</p>
<p>Peek a message from a channel, i.e. read it without dequeueing it, in a non-blocking fashion. If the channel is not empty, return the message and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">true</span></code>, else return <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>.</p>
</section>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>